Title: Open-H-Embodiment: A Large-Scale Dataset for Enabling Foundation Models in Medical Robotics

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.21017v1

Published Time: Fri, 24 Apr 2026 00:10:37 GMT

Number of Pages: 52

Markdown Content:
# Open-H-Embodiment: A Large-Scale Dataset for Enabling Foundation Models in Medical Robotics 

Nigel Nelson 1,†, Juo-Tung Chen 2,†, Jesse Haworth 2,†, Xinhao Chen 2,†, Lukas Zbinden 1,†, Dianye Huang 3,†, Alaa Eldin Abdelaal 4,Alberto Arezzo 5, Ayberk Acar 6, Farshid Alambeigi 7, Carlo Alberto Ammirati 5, Yunke Ao 8,9,10 , Pablo David Aranda Rodriguez 11 ,Soofiyan Atar 12 , Mattia Ballo 13 , Noah Barnes 2, Federica Barontini 5, Filip Binkiewicz 14 , Peter Black 15 ,16 , Sebastian Bodenstedt 17 ,18 ,Leonardo Borgioli 19 , Nikola Budjak 11 , Benjamin Calmé 20 , Fabio Carrillo 8, Nicola Cavalcanti 8, Changwei Chen 12 , Haoxin Chen 21 ,Sihang Chen 22 , Qihan Chen 23 , Zhongyu Chen 24 ,25 , Ziyang Chen 26 , Shing Shin Cheng 24 , Meiqing Cheng 27 , Min Cheng 28 ,22 , Zih-Yun Sarah Chiu 2, Xiangyu Chu 24 ,25 , Camilo Correa-Gallego 29 , Giulio Dagnino 5,30 , Anton Deguet 2, Jacob Delgado 2, Jonathan C. DeLong 31 , Kaizhong Deng 32 , Alexander Dimitrakakis 29 , Qingpeng Ding 24 , Hao Ding 2,33 , Giovanni Distefano 5, Daniel Donoho 34 ,Anqing Duan 35 , Marco Esposito 11 , Shane Farritor 36 , Jad Fayad 37 , Zahi Fayad 29 , Mario Ferradosa 38 , Filippo Filicori 39 , Chelsea Finn 4,40 , Philipp Fürnstahl 8,41 , Jiawei Ge 2, Stamatia Giannarou 32 , Xavier Giralt Ludevid 38 , Frederic Giraud 8, Aditya Amit Godbole 42 , Ken Goldberg 26 , Antony Goldenberg 2, Diego Granero Marana 14 , Xiaoqing Guo 21 , Tamás Haidegger 43 ,44 , Evan Hailey 36 ,Pascal Hansen 18 , Ziyi Hao 24 , Kush Hari 26 , Kengo Hayashi 5, Jonathon Hawkins 14 , Shelby Haworth 2, Ortrun Hellig 17 , S. Duke Herrell 6, Zhouyang Hong 24 , Andrew Howe 14 , Junlei Hu 20 , Ria Jain 26 , Mohammad Rafiee Javazm 7, Howard Ji 4, Rui Ji 45 , Jianmin Ji 22 , Zhongliang Jiang 46 ,3, Dominic Jones 20 , Jeffrey Jopling 2, Britton Jordan 6, Ran Ju 46 ,28 , Michael Kam 2, Luoyao Kang 24 , Fausto Kang 2, Siddhartha Kapuria 7, Peter Kazanzides 2, Sonika Kiehler 7, Ethan Kilmer 2, Ji Woong (Brian) Kim 2,4, Przemysław Korzeniowski 1,13 , Chandra Kuchi 40 , Nithesh Kumar 6, Alan Kuntz 6, Federico Lavagno 5, Yu Chung Lee 15 , Hao-Chih Lee 29 , Hang Li 24 ,Zhen Li 45 , Xiao Liang 12 , Xinxin Lin 27 , Jinsong Lin 24 , Chang Liu 2, Fei Liu 31 , Pei Liu 3, Yun-hui Liu 24 , Wanli Liuchen 23 , Eszter Lukács 43 ,44 , Sareena Mann 26 , Miles Mannas 15 ,16 , Brett Marinelli 29 , Sabina Martyniak 13 , Francesco Marzola 5, Lorenzo Mazza 17 ,Xueyan Mei 29 , Maria Clara Morais 42 , Luigi Muratore 5, Chetan Reddy Narayanaswamy 4, Michał Naskręt 13 , David Navarro-Alarcon 23 , Cyrus Neary 15 , Chi Kit Ng 24 , Christopher Nguan 15 ,16 , David Noonan 37 , Ki Hwan Oh 19 , Tom Christian Olesch 31 ,Allison M. Okamura 4, Justin Opfermann 2, Matteo Pescio 5, Doan Xuan Viet Pham 2, Tito Porras 33 , Hongliang Ren 24 , Ariel Rodriguez Jimenez 17 , Ferdinando Rodriguez y Baena 32 , Septimiu E. Salcudean 15 , Asmitha Sathya 2, Preethi Satish 26 , Lalithkumar Seenivasan 2,Jiaqi Shao 4, Yiqing Shen 2,33 , Yu Sheng 22 , Lucy XiaoYang Shi 4,40 , Zoe Soulé 17 , Stefanie Speidel 17 ,18 , Mingwu Su 24 , Jianhao Su 32 ,Idris Sunmola 2, Kristóf Takács 43 , Yunxi Tang 24 ,25 , Patrick Thornycroft 14 , Yu Tian 24 , Jordan Thompson 6, Mehmet K. Turkcan 47 ,Mathias Unberath 2,33 , Pietro Valdastri 20 , Carlos Vives 38 , Quan Vuong 40 , Martin Wagner 17 , Farong Wang 31 , Wei Wang 27 , Lidian Wang 22 , Chung-Pang Wang 12 , Guankun Wang 24 , Junyi Wang 46 , Erqi Wang 24 , Ziyi Wang 24 , Tanner Watts 6, Wolfgang Wein 11 ,Yimeng Wu 2, Zijian Wu 15 , Hongjun Wu 2, Luohong Wu 8, Jie Ying Wu 6, Junlin Wu 2, Victoria Wu 37 , Kaixuan Wu 24 , Mateusz Wójcikowski 13 , Yunye Xiao 11 , Nan Xiao 31 , Wenxuan Xie 24 , Hao Yang 6, Tianqi Yang 24 ,25 , Yinuo Yang 12 , Menglong Ye 37 , Ryan S. Yeung 15 , Nural Yilmaz 2, Chim Ho Yin 24 , Michael Yip 12 , Rayan Younis 17 , Chenhao Yu 33 , Sayem Nazmuz Zaman 15 , Milos Zefran 19 ,Han Zhang 2, Yuelin Zhang 24 , Yidong Zhang 24 , Yanyong Zhang 22 , Xuyang Zhang 22 , Yameng Zhang 46 ,25 , Joyce Zhang 14 , Ning Zhong 45 , Peng Zhou 48 , Haoying Zhou 2,49 , Xiuli Zuo 45 , Nassir Navab 3,‡, Mahdi Azizian 1,‡, Sean D. Huver 1,‡, Axel Krieger 2,33 ,‡

1NVIDIA, 2Johns Hopkins University, 3Technical University of Munich, 4Stanford University, 5University of Turin, 6Vanderbilt University, 7The University of Texas at Austin, 8Balgrist University Hospital, 9ETH Zurich, 10 ETH AI Center, 11 ImFusion GmbH, 12 University of California San Diego, 13 Sano Centre for Computational Medicine, 14 CMR Surgical, 15 University of British Columbia, 16 Vancouver General Hospital, 

17 CeTI/TU Dresden, 18 German Cancer Research Center, 19 University of Illinois Chicago, 20 University of Leeds, 21 Hong Kong Baptist University, 22 University of Science and Technology of China, 23 The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, 24 The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 

25 Multi-scale Medical Robotics Center, 26 University of California Berkeley, 27 Sun Yat-Sen University, 28 Tuodao Medical Technology Co., Ltd, 

29 Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, 30 University of Twente, 31 University of Tennessee Knoxville, 32 Imperial College London, 

33 Semaphor Surgical, 34 Surgical Data Science Collective, 35 Mohamed bin Zayed University of Artificial Intelligence, 36 Virtual Incision, 37 Moon Surgical, 38 Rob Surgical, 39 Hofstra/Northwell School of Medicine, 40 Physical Intelligence, 41 University of Zurich, 42 Northwell Health, 43 Óbuda University, 44 Austrian Center for Medical Innovation and Technology, 45 Qilu Hospital of Shandong University, 46 The University of Hong Kong, 

47 Columbia University, 48 Great Bay University, 49 Worcester Polytechnic Institute 

† Co-first authors. ‡ Co-senior authors. 

1

> arXiv:2604.21017v1 [cs.RO] 22 Apr 2026

Autonomous medical robots hold promise to improve patient out-comes, reduce provider workload, democratize access to care, and en-able superhuman precision. However, autonomous medical robotics has been limited by a fundamental data problem: existing medical robotic datasets are small, single-embodiment, and rarely shared openly, re-stricting the development of foundation models that the field needs to advance. We introduce Open-H-Embodiment, the largest open dataset of medical robotic video with synchronized kinematics to date, span-ning more than 49 institutions and multiple robotic platforms includ-ing the CMR Versius, Intuitive Surgical’s da Vinci, da Vinci Research Kit (dVRK), Rob Surgical BiTrack, Virtual Incision’s MIRA, Moon Surgical Maestro, and a variety of custom systems, spanning surgi-cal manipulation, robotic ultrasound, and endoscopy procedures. We demonstrate the research enabled by this dataset through two foun-dation models. GR00T-H is the first open foundation vision-language-action model for medical robotics, which is the only evaluated model to achieve full end-to-end task completion on a structured suturing benchmark (25% of trials vs. 0% for all others) and achieves 64% average success across a 29-step ex vivo suturing sequence. We also train Cosmos-H-Surgical-Simulator, the first action-conditioned world model to enable multi-embodiment surgical simulation from a single checkpoint, spanning nine robotic platforms and supporting in silico policy evaluation and synthetic data generation for the medical do-main. These results suggest that open, large-scale medical robot data collection can serve as critical infrastructure for the research commu-nity, enabling advances in robot learning, world modeling, and beyond.  

> Project page: https://open-h.github.io/open-h-embodiment/

2Versius dVRK-Si MIRA BiTrack dVRK Franka Panda Maestro UR5e Kuka Med 14 da Vinci Si da Vinci Xi Torin Language (Text)   

> Video (Visual)
> Kinematics (Motion) 770 hours of Data GR00T-H Cosmos-H-
> Surgical-Simulator Surgical Autonomy Output Video
> A. Institutional Map (49 Institutions) B. Robotic Embodiments (20 Healthcare Robots)
> C. Sample Dataset Images D. Multimodal Data & Foundation Models
> custom-built systems and simulation not shown

Figure 1 : Open-H-Embodiment overview. (A) Geographic distribution of the 49 par-ticipating institutions across North America, Europe, the Middle East, and Asia. ( B) The 20 healthcare robotic platforms represented in the dataset, spanning surgical systems (da Vinci Si, da Vinci Xi, dVRK, dVRK-Si, MIRA, Versius, BiTrack, Maestro, Torin), general-purpose manipulators adapted for clinical use (Franka Panda, UR5e, Kuka Med 14), and emerging platforms. ( C) Representative frames from the dataset illustrating the diversity of tasks, viewpoints, and tissue types covered, including robotic surgery, robotic ultrasound, and related healthcare manipulation tasks. ( D) The dataset comprises 770 hours of synchro-nized multimodal demonstrations spanning language annotations, video observations, and kinematic trajectories. This corpus supports two downstream directions: training GR00T-H, a healthcare-focused vision-language-action model targeting surgical autonomy, and train-ing Cosmos-H-Surgical-Simulator, a multi-embodiment, action-conditioned world model for surgical scene synthesis. 3Summary 

Open-H: The largest medical robotic dataset of paired video and kinematics enabling multi-embodiment foundation models. 

## Introduction 

In the global healthcare system, surgical patient outcomes vary tremendously and are heavily dependent on factors such as surgeon experience, workload and fatigue, and disparities in institutional resources. This variability has the potential to be exacerbated by a mounting global healthcare workforce crisis; in the United States alone, a deficit of 13,000 to 86,000 surgeons is projected by 2036 ( 1, 2 ). Autonomous robotic systems offer a critical pathway to mitigate surgeon workload, reduce burnout, and expand access to high-quality care, particu-larly in underserved regions or ambulatory surgery centers lacking specialized expertise. The path toward such autonomy is already underway; medical robots are increasingly deployed across the healthcare spectrum, taking on diverse roles ranging from patient rehabilitation to precise diagnostic imaging. While many of these systems operate with significant indepen-dence, surgical robots present a stark contrast. They remain almost entirely dependent on real-time human teleoperation, functioning at Level 1 (robot assistance) on surgical levels of autonomy ( 3, 4 ). Developing autonomous and semi-autonomous capabilities for high-volume procedures, such as cholecystectomy and suturing, provides a vital strategy to reduce per-formance variability and extend surgical capacity to underserved populations ( 5). Recent advances in robot learning have enabled the autonomous execution of complex surgical tasks, including portions of ex vivo cholecystectomy ( 6) and in vivo tissue retrac-tion and gauze packing ( 7). While these results demonstrate the potential for autonomous systems in clinical procedures, current models remain fragile, failing when confronted with procedural variations and struggling to generalize across different surgical tasks. To achieve scalable autonomy, the surgical robotics field must adopt the paradigms currently driving general artificial intelligence. The broader machine learning community has established a powerful empirical principle: large-scale, diverse pretraining datasets unlock generalist mod-4els that significantly outperform narrow policies, fine-tune efficiently, and generalize to novel domains. This trend is well-established in natural language processing ( 8, 9 ) and computer vision ( 10, 11, 12 ), and is increasingly evident in general-purpose robotics ( 13 ). The evolu-tion of Vision-Language-Action (VLA) models perfectly illustrates this trajectory. Founda-tional work like RT-1 ( 14 ) and RT-2 ( 15 ) demonstrated that transformer-based visuomotor policies exhibit clear scaling behavior, effectively transferring web-scale semantic knowledge to robotic control. Subsequent efforts proved the immense value of cross-embodiment data sharing. Open-X-Embodiment ( 13 ) pooled over one million trajectories, enabling the RT-2-X model to improve the success rate upon the single-embodiment RT-2 by approximately 50% on emergent tasks. This breakthrough led to a rapid progression of highly efficient, generalist architectures. Models such as Octo ( 16 ), CrossFormer ( 17 ), and the 7B-parameter OpenVLA ( 18 ) showed that policies pretrained on massive corpora can be efficiently fine-tuned to new embodiments, and outperform narrowly trained models. Frameworks like Ag-iBot World ( 19 ), Google’s Gemini Robotics ( 20 ), and NVIDIA’s GR00T ( 21 ) pushed these boundaries further, training on vast multimodal and synthetic datasets that span tens of thousands of hours without hitting performance saturation. Most recently, works such as Cosmos-Policy ( 22 ), DreamZero ( 23 ), and LingBot-VA ( 24 ) have shifted from semantic to spatiotemporal priors, replacing language-pretrained backbones with video foundation mod-els that internalize physical dynamics from internet-scale video and show strong initial results on general manipulation benchmarks. The central lesson across this progression is that data diversity, multimodality richness, and scale compound. Each generation of larger, more var-ied corpora yields stronger generalization, higher absolute performance, and more efficient fine-tuning. Surgical robotics, however, has not shared in these advances. The SutureBot bench-mark ( 25 ) evaluated state-of-the-art general-purpose VLAs, including OpenVLA ( 18 ), GR00T-N1 ( 21 ), and π0 (26 ), on autonomous suturing and found that all were significantly outper-formed by a multitask Action Chunking Transformer (ACT) ( 27 ) policy trained from scratch on SutureBot data alone. This failure stems from a huge mismatch in both task complexity and physical environment. Unlike most actions in general robot datasets that require minimal instruction, surgical procedures demand years of intensive practice and specialized expertise 5to execute safely. Furthermore, surgical instruments interact with deformable, viscoelastic tissues rather than rigid objects; visual feedback relies on complex endoscopic optics rather than standard fixed cameras; and procedures contain multi-step sequences with irreversible actions and narrow tolerance for error. Consequently, most capable general-purpose policies fail at entry-level surgical tasks, not because their architectures are inadequate, but because the gap between general manipulations and surgical procedures is too vast to bridge with out-of-domain pretraining. The root cause of this domain gap is a structural data bottleneck. Unlike general robotics, acquiring synchronized kinematic and multimodal data in a clinical environment requires navigating stringent safety protocols, institutional review boards, and patient privacy regu-lations. Instrumenting proprietary surgical robots to record high-fidelity kinematic streams adds further technical complexity rarely encountered in standard robotic data collection. The resulting scarcity is evident in the scale of existing datasets. For over a decade, JIG-SAWS ( 28 ), providing merely 3 hours of demonstrations on the da Vinci system, remained the primary surgical manipulation benchmark. Subsequent works have made meaningful progress. The Expanded CRCD ( 29 ) added kinematic recordings of pseudo-cholecystectomy, SutureBot ( 25 ) provided around 6 hours of end-to-end suturing data, and ImitateCholec ( 30 )reached approximately 20 hours of segmented demonstrations of cholecystectomy with paired endoscopic video and dVRK kinematics, making it the largest publicly available single-robot surgical dataset. However, even these important contributions remain orders of magnitude smaller than the massive corpora driving general-purpose manipulation. They are also single-embodiment, single-institution, and narrow in task scope. Prior to the present work, no cross-embodiment surgical dataset has been assembled, leaving the field without the infrastructure that can determine if domain-focused pretraining can overcome the transfer deficit. Open-H-Embodiment is a direct response to this bottleneck. Inspired by the collabo-rative success of Open-X-Embodiment ( 13 ), but rigorously adapted to the unique sensing, safety, and governance constraints of the medical domain, this community-driven initiative aggregates data from dozens of global institutions. By unifying a large corpus of real and synthetic data across a diverse range of robotic surgery and healthcare tasks, the dataset provides synchronized, multimodal observations under a standardized schema. 6Pairing high-capacity VLA models with the Open-H dataset finally allows us to test whether the scaling laws of general robotics apply to the healthcare domain. To investigate this, we introduce GR00T-H, a healthcare-focused foundational VLA developed by post-training the GR00T-N1.6 model on the Open-H dataset. We rigorously evaluate GR00T-H against both generalist and specialist baselines on complex, long-horizon tasks across multi-ple robotic platforms. Our results show that GR00T-H has significant advantages in overall task success, data efficiency during fine-tuning, and cross-embodiment generalization. Beyond policy learning, we demonstrate that the Open-H enables fine-tuning of world foundation models for surgical robotics simulation. We produce Cosmos-H-Surgical-Simulator (C-H-S-S), the first multi-embodiment, kinematic action-conditioned world model for surgical sim-ulation, built by fine-tuning Cosmos-Predict 2.5 ( 31 ) on the Open-H surgical data mixture spanning nine robotic platforms. C-H-S-S provides a publicly available, commercially usable frontier for in silico policy evaluation and synthetic data generation in the surgical domain. In summary, the primary contributions of this work include: 

• We introduce Open-H, the first large-scale, cross-embodiment, and multimodal dataset for surgical and healthcare robotics. 

• We present GR00T-H, an open foundational surgical VLA demonstrating superior task success, fine-tuning data efficiency, and cross-embodiment generalization. 

• We develop C-H-S-S, the first multi-embodiment, kinematic action-conditioned world model for surgical simulation, enabling in silico policy evaluation and synthetic data generation. 

## Results 

The Open-H-Embodiment Dataset 

Open-H-Embodiment is the first cross-embodiment, multi-institution dataset for healthcare robotics. The corpus comprises 119 datasets totaling 770 hours of paired video and kine-matic data, contributed by more than 49 institutions worldwide. It spans 20 distinct robot 7platforms, 33 task families, and 5 environment types ranging from digital simulation to live clinical procedures (Figure 2). Table 1 contextualizes this scale against prior surgical datasets, all of which are single-embodiment and single-institution. 

Embodiment Diversity: The 20 robot platforms span five structural families: surgical robotic systems (620 hours across 76 datasets), industrial arms modified for healthcare use (40 hours, 18 datasets), flexible endoscope robots (30 hours, 8 datasets), simulated robots (83 hours, 15 datasets), and manual instrumentation (1 hour, 2 datasets). Commercial platforms include the Versius (CMR Surgical, Cambridge, UK), da Vinci Si and Xi (Intuitive Surgical, Sunnyvale, USA), BiTrack (Rob Surgical, Barcelona, Spain), MIRA (Virtual Incision, Lin-coln, USA), and Maestro (Moon Surgical, Paris, France), alongside research platforms such as the dVRK, KUKA LBR iiwa, Franka Panda, UR5e, and the USTC Torin (Figure 2a). No prior surgical dataset spans more than a single platform family, making Open-H the first corpus capable of supporting cross-embodiment transfer experiments in this domain. 

Task and Procedure Coverage: The dataset spans the full granularity spectrum relevant to surgical autonomy, from complete multi-hour clinical procedures down to isolated manip-ulation primitives. At the procedure level, four clinical workflows each exceed 100 hours: prostatectomy (169 hours), cholecystectomy (172 hours), hysterectomy (122 hours), and hernia repair (119 hours). At the subtask level, the corpus includes suturing and knot tying (57 hours across 30 datasets), tissue manipulation (19 hours, 18 datasets), and skills bench-

Table 1 : Open-H-Embodiment compared with prior surgical robotics datasets containing kinematic data. Open-H is the first dataset to span multiple embodiments while exceeding prior work by more than an order of magnitude in duration.                  

> Hours Episodes Platforms
> JIGSAWS ( 28 )∼3103 1Exp. CRCD ( 29 )∼780 1SutureBot ( 25 )∼61,890 1ImitateCholec ( 30 )∼20 ∼18,000 1
> Open-H (ours) 770 124,019 20

8marks such as peg transfer and needle threading (25 hours, 14 datasets). Beyond surgery, 21 datasets (43 hours) cover robotic ultrasound scanning, tracked ultrasound, and ultrasound-guided intervention. 8 datasets (30 hours) address flexible endoscopy and colonoscopy navi-gation (Figure 2c). This coverage across complete procedures and isolated primitives provides training signal for high-level procedural planning and low-level motor control alike. 

Sensing Modality Richness: Beyond the universal pairing of video and kinematics present in every dataset, individual contributions extend the observation space along mul-tiple sensing axes. 71 datasets (60%) provide two or more simultaneous camera views, and 52 datasets (44%) include stereo endoscopic video, providing native depth cues absent from monocular feeds. Wrist-mounted cameras appear in 31 datasets (26%), offering close-range views of instrument-tissue interaction that complement the endoscopic field of view. Depth sensing is available in 27 datasets (23%), spanning RGB-D cameras (Intel RealSense, 11 datasets), computed stereo depth, and simulation-derived ground-truth depth maps. The 21 ultrasound datasets pair time-synchronized B-mode imaging with RGB cameras and, in sev-eral contributions from CUHK, ImFusion, and TUM, simultaneous wrist-camera and third-person views, creating observation spaces with three or more synchronized visual streams. One ultrasound contribution (TUM CAMP SonATA) additionally provides synchronized force kinematics. The simulation subset (84 hours across 18 datasets) provides dense output modalities infeasible to capture on real tissue, including surface normals, optical flow, and per-pixel tool segmentation masks. Five datasets from UBC include synchronized eye-gaze tracking at 120 Hz, capturing operator visual attention during endoscopic procedures. 

Environment and Realism Spectrum: The corpus spans five realism tiers: digital sim-ulation (84 hours, 18 datasets), benchtop and phantom (119 hours, 57 datasets), ex vivo (65 hours, 27 datasets), in vivo (3 hours, 6 datasets), and clinical human procedures (499 hours, 11 datasets). Clinical data, predominantly contributed by CMR Surgical (489 hours of Versius procedures), accounts for 65% of the total corpus by duration (Figure 2b). This dis-tribution, spanning from fully controlled simulation through cadaveric tissue to live surgery, supports progressive model validation across increasing levels of clinical realism. 90.01 

0.1 

1

10 

100 

1000 501 

> Versius
> 60.1
> Simulated dVRK
> 59
> dVRK-Si
> 37.2
> dVRK
> 23.5
> UR5e
> 19.4
> Cobra
> Colonoscope
> 15.8
> XR Simulator
> 11.1
> Franka Panda
> 9.3
> BiTrack
> 8.0
> Custom Endo.
> Rob.
> 5.9
> Torin
> 5.7
> Simulated
> KUKA Med14
> 4.5
> Sim. US
> Platform
> 4.4
> da Vinci Si
> 2.1
> Flex. Endo.
> Platf.
> 2.0
> KUKA LBR iiwa
> 0.91
> Manual Laparoscopic
> Tools
> 0.37
> MIRA
> 0.22
> da Vinci Xi
> 0.11
> Maestro

A. Robot Platforms by Hours 

> Hours (log scale)

64.8% 

15.4% 

10.9% 

0.3% 

8.5% 

770h 

119 datasets 

Clinical 

499.1h · 11 datasets 

Benchtop 

119.0h · 57 datasets 

Simulation 

84.3h · 18 datasets 

Ex Vivo 

65.3h · 27 datasets 

In Vivo 

2.7h · 6 datasets 

B. Distribution of Hours by Environment 

0.1 

1

10 

100 

169 

> Prostatectomy

123 

> Hysterectomy

119 

> Hernia Repair

119 

> Cholecystectomy

59 

> Retraction

45 

> Suturing

20 

> Peg Transfer

8.0 

> Hemicolectomy

7.8 Needle Handover 

7.2 

> Debridement

3.1 

> Knot Tying

2.7 

> Dissection

2.6 

> Grasping

2.4 

> Ring Transfer

1.9 

> Liver Dissection

1.6 

> Needle Pickup

1.2 

> Spatial Nav.

1.2 

> Camera Guidance

0.93 

> Wire Chasing

0.69 

> Gauze Cutting

0.54 

> Lifting

0.24 

> Tool Tracking

Surgical 

22 

> Needle Insertion

15 

> Ultrasound Scan

4.5 

> Ultrasound Navigation

2.1 

> Ultrasound Guidance

0.37 

> Tracked EUS
> Tracked Ultrasound

Ultrasound 

19 

> Colonoscopy Navigation

3.9 

> Lesion Tracking

2.8 

> Anatomical Localization

2.1 

> Endoscope Navigation

1.4 

> ROI Tracking

Endoscopy 

C. Hours of Data by Task Family 

> Hours (log scale)

Figure 2 : Composition of the Open-H-Embodiment dataset. (A) Dataset hours by robot platform. ( B) Distribution of dataset hours by environment type. ( C) Distribution of dataset hours across task families. Together, these panels summarize the current distribution of contributed data across embodiments, collection environments, and task families in Open-H-Embodiment. 10 GR00T-H: A Foundational Vision-Language-Action Model for Surgery 

To demonstrate the utility of the Open-H dataset in enhancing robot learning performance for surgical tasks, we developed GR00T-H, the first open foundational surgical Vision-Language-Action (VLA) model. GR00T-H is based on NVIDIA’s pretrained GR00T-N1.6 policy ( 21 ), which was then post-trained on the Open-H dataset. We evaluated GR00T-H by comparing its performance against the base GR00T-N1.6, the ACT policy, an architecture previously established as a leading baseline for surgical robotics ( 25 ), and LingBot-VA, a recent world action model that we post-train using a 50-hour dVRK-focused subset of Open-H (Supple-mentary Text). All policies were subsequently fine-tuned on small, embodiment- and task-specific datasets to assess their performance. For the end-to-end suturing experiment, we re-port cumulative task survival across sequential subtasks. For all other experiments, we report individual sub-task success rates and an averaged sub-task success rate with 95% Clopper-Pearson confidence intervals and p-values from Fisher’s exact test with Holm-Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons. 

End-To-End Suturing: To evaluate long-horizon policy performance, we utilize the Su-tureBot benchmark ( 25 ), which employs a dVRK-based suturing dataset with a phantom silicone pad and suture needle as shown in Figure S1. To ensure a fair comparison, we imple-mented a per-setup evaluation protocol: for each specific environment configuration, robot configuration, pad position, and needle placement, GR00T-N1.6, GR00T-H, and ACT each performed a single suturing attempt. This setup was held constant across the three models and only changed once all models had completed the trial. LingBot-VA was evaluated in a separate evaluation session, with a best effort made to mirror the diversity of setup seen by the other three models. The suturing procedure is decomposed into five sub-tasks: needle-pickup, handover, throw, extraction, and knot-tying. Each model was initialized at the first sub-task, and performance was measured by the total progress achieved through the task sequence prior to failure. As shown in Figure 3, all four models perform comparably through the early manipulation stages, with GR00T-H retaining all 20 trials through pickup and handover, while by the handover stage GR00T-N1.6 drops to 16, and LingBot-VA falls to 12. The performance 11 gap widens substantially at the throw stage, where GR00T-H retains 12/20 trials compared to 4/20 for both ACT and GR00T-N1.6, and LingBot-VA’s 1/20. Only GR00T-H achieves full end-to-end task completion, finishing 5/20 trials (25%), while ACT, GR00T-N1.6, and LingBot-VA complete 0/20 trials. This experiment emphasizes the importance of policies being robust to compounding errors over the task horizon. A successful end-to-end suturing rollout is shown in Movie S1. 

Generalization: To assess whether healthcare-specific post-training improves robustness to distribution shift, we evaluated GR00T-H, ACT, and GR00T-N1.6 on a wound config-uration unseen during training and under different lighting conditions ( n = 10 trials per subtask, n = 30 total) as shown in Figure S1. Due to relatively low end-to-end performance across policies for the in-distribution setup, we evaluate the policy generalization by looking at average sub-task performance instead of end-to-end performance for a stronger evaluation signal. ACT only achieved 15% on the pick up and handover task and failed all the other tasks. Averaging across individual sub-tasks, GR00T-H achieves a success rate of 54%, com-pared to 30% for GR00T-N1.6. Notably, GR00T-H leads on Pick Up and Handover (70% vs. 40%), and also Throw and Extract (42.5% vs. 5%). However, GR00T-N1.6 achieved similar performance to GR00T-H on the knot-tying task (50% vs. 45%). These results confirm that large pretrained VLAs improve robustness and visual generalization, while indicating that GR00T-H post-training may improve robustness in the surgical domain. 

Data Efficiency: To test whether Open-H post-training reduces the amount of task-specific fine-tuning data required, we trained GR00T-H, ACT, and GR00T-N1.6 with either 33% or 100% of the full fine-tuning dataset ( ∼2 hours vs. ∼6 hours of demonstrations), us-ing proportional sampling to preserve task distribution and the ratio of nominal to recovery demonstrations. Similar to generalization experiments, we use sub-task success rates instead of end-to-end success rates for a stronger evaluation signal. Results are shown in Figure 4. At 33% data, GR00T-H already matches ACT on the 3-task average (both ≈47%), while GR00T-N1.6 lags at ≈20%. With full data, GR00T-H improves substantially to ≈73%, com-pared to ≈50% for ACT and ≈37% for GR00T-N1.6. This suggests that Open-H post-training 12 Figure 3 : SutureBot end-to-end and out-of-distribution evaluation. Top: Task sur-vival for GR00T-H on the SutureBot end-to-end suturing task compared to GR00T-N1.6, ACT, and LingBot-VA. GR00T-H improves end-to-end performance with a long-horizon success rate of 25%, showing better handling of compounding errors. Bottom: Out-of-distribution evaluation on SutureBot with an unseen wound configuration under varied lighting ( n = 20 per subtask). GR00T-H achieves a 3-task average of 54%, outperforming GR00T-N1.6 (30%) and ACT (5%). Clopper-Pearson 95% confidence intervals are repre-sented as error bars. 13 provides a stronger initialization for surgical fine-tuning: GR00T-H achieves competitive per-formance with limited data and may scale more effectively than GR00T-N1.6 when more data is available. 

Multi-Embodiment: A primary advantage of training VLAs on diverse multi-embodiment data is the resulting performance gain across distinct platforms within the data distribution. To validate GR00T-H’s cross-embodiment capabilities, we compared it against the GR00T-N1.6 base model across three systems: the CMR Versius, Virtual Incision MIRA, and the da Vinci Research Kit Si (dVRK-Si). The Versius system was evaluated on Peg Transfer, a standard surgical training task, using 5.2 hours of training data, with the procedure de-composed into block pickup from the peg, block handover, and placement on a peg. For the MIRA robot, we evaluated the needle pickup sub-task using only 22 minutes of data. Finally, the dVRK-Si was used for the SutureBot sub-tasks described previously, trained on 6 hours of data. Images of all system setups can be found in Figure S1. As shown in Figure 5, GR00T-H demonstrates a significant performance boost over the base model across all plat-forms ( p < 0.001 for the overall average), confirming that Open-H post-training effectively enhances surgical capabilities across diverse robotic embodiments. 

Ex Vivo Experiment: To evaluate GR00T-H in a clinically proximate setting, we con-ducted an ex vivo suturing evaluation on skin-on pork belly, assessing performance across the full 29-subtask sequence required to complete a suture covering needle manipulation, needle throwing, wound opening, suture manipulation, knot tying, and suture cutting. The ex vivo suturing setup can be seen in Figure S1. Each subtask was evaluated over 10 trials (n = 290 total), with final results shown in Figure 6 and video of successful subtask rollouts shown in Movie S2. GR00T-H achieves an overall average success rate of 64% across all 29 subtasks. Perfor-mance is strongest on structured manipulation primitives: needle pickup (10/10), all han-dover stages (9/10, 10/10, 9/10), set-down needle (10/10), and all three knot-tying steps (10/10 each) all reach near-perfect or perfect success. Performance is lower on subtasks re-quiring fine instrument coordination or tissue contact, including readjust (4/10), open wound 14 Figure 4 : SutureBot data efficiency evaluation. Task success rate at 33% and 100% fine-tuning data on SutureBot ( n = 10 per subtask). At 33% data, GR00T-H matches ACT while GR00T-N1.6 underperforms both. At 100% data, GR00T-H outperforms all baselines, indicating that Open-H post-training enables both data-efficient learning and stronger scal-ing. Clopper-Pearson 95% confidence intervals are represented as error bars. 15 Figure 5 : Multi-Embodiment Performance Comparison. Evaluation of the GR00T-H foundational VLA (post-trained on Open-H) versus the GR00T-N1.6 base policy across three surgical platforms: the da Vinci Research Kit Si (dVRK-Si), CMR Versius, and Vir-tual Incision MIRA. GR00T-H demonstrates significant performance gains across all robot embodiments and sub-tasks, with the overall average success rate showing a statistically sig-nificant improvement ( p < 0.001 ). Error bars represent the Clopper-Pearson 95% confidence intervals across trials. 16 Figure 6 : Ex vivo suturing evaluation across 29 subtasks. (n = 10 per subtask, 

n = 290 total). Tasks span needle manipulation, wound opening, suture passing, knot tying, and suture cutting. GR00T-H achieves an average success rate of ≈64%, with near-perfect performance on structured manipulation primitives and lower success on fine-contact and cutting steps. The rightmost bar shows the overall average across all subtasks. Clopper-Pearson 95% confidence intervals are represented as error bars. (4/10), wrapping steps (8/10, 4/10, and 8/10), grab the suture tail (5/10, 6/10, and 3/10), and the two cut suture steps (2/10 and 3/10). The cutting steps represent the most consistent failure mode, potentially due to the precise and quick nature of the cutting motion. These results demonstrate that GR00T-H can execute the sub-tasks of a clinically relevant manipulation sequence on real biological tissue, with reliable performance on the majority of sub-tasks. The pattern of failures, concentrated in fine-contact and cutting steps rather than distributed uniformly, suggests that targeted data collection and fine-tuning on these specific failure modes represent a tractable path to achieve end-to-end performance. 17 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70        

> Generated Frame
> 0.010
> 0.015
> 0.020
> 0.025
> 0.030
> 0.035
> 0.040
> Benchtop
> L1
> SSIM
> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70
> Generated Frame
> 0.04
> 0.06
> 0.08
> 0.10
> Tissue-Based
> L1
> SSIM
> 0.800
> 0.825
> 0.850
> 0.875
> 0.900
> 0.925
> 0.950
> 0.50
> 0.55
> 0.60
> 0.65
> 0.70
> 0.75
> 0.80

Figure 7 : Quantitative evaluation of Cosmos-H-Surgical-Simulator. Per-frame L1 and SSIM for benchtop vs. tissue-based datasets. Mean L1 error and SSIM as a function of generated frame index across 72 autoregressively generated frames (6 chunks × 12 frames each). Mean over 3 generation seeds, each averaged across all evaluated episodes within the category; shaded bands indicate 1 standard deviation across seeds. Left: benchtop datasets (phantom and bench procedures). Right: tissue-based datasets (clinical, cadaver, and ex vivo tissue). 

Cosmos-H-Surgical-Simulator: A World Model for Surgical Robotics Simulation 

Cosmos-H-Surgical-Simulator is the first multi-embodiment, kinematic action-conditioned world foundation model for surgical robotics simulation. Built by fine-tuning Cosmos-Predict 2.5 ( 31 ), a 2B-parameter latent video diffusion transformer, on the Open-H surgical data mixture spanning nine robotic platforms and 32 datasets (Table S4), C-H-S-S accepts a single video frame and a sequence of kinematic action vectors, and autoregressively generates future frames that predict the visual outcome of those actions. Through iterative rollout, it can produce complete surgical trajectory videos for any embodiment in its training distribution, enabling in silico policy evaluation and synthetic data generation from a single publicly available, commercially usable checkpoint. Movie S3 shows representative generated rollouts across multiple embodiments. To our knowledge, no prior surgical world model has supported more than a single robotic platform. Quantitative evaluation of surgical world models remains an open problem. Standard un-conditional video generation metrics such as FID and FVD measure distributional similarity to a reference set but do not assess whether a generated video faithfully tracks the spe-18 cific visual consequences of a given action sequence. Because C-H-S-S is action-conditioned, replaying the recorded action sequence from a held-out test episode produces a generated roll-out that can be compared frame-by-frame against the original ground-truth video. We adopt two complementary pixel-level metrics: L1 (mean absolute error), which measures overall pixel fidelity, and SSIM (structural similarity index), which captures perceptual structural correspondence. Both are computed per frame across 72 autoregressively generated frames (6 chunks of 12 frames each) on held-out test episodes from 25 Open-H datasets, using 3 generation seeds per episode to quantify variability. Results are stratified by dataset cate-gory; benchtop (datasets covering phantom and bench procedures) and tissue-based (datasets covering clinical, cadaver, and ex vivo tissue), to characterize how scene complexity affects generation quality. Figure 7 reports the per-frame L1 and SSIM trajectories for both categories. Benchtop scenes, which feature controlled lighting, static backgrounds, and clearly visible instruments, maintain low L1 and high SSIM throughout the 72-frame horizon, with only gradual degra-dation. Tissue-based scenes exhibit higher L1 and lower SSIM overall, consistent with the greater visual complexity of in-body environments: variable lighting from the endoscope, frequent instrument occlusion, specular reflections on wet tissue, and deformable anatomy that is inherently harder to predict. The error bands across seeds are narrow for benchtop scenes, indicating stable generation; tissue-based scenes show wider seed-to-seed variability, particularly in L1, reflecting the greater stochasticity involved in predicting visually complex in-body environments. The expected sawtooth pattern at chunk boundaries, where each new 12-frame chunk re-conditions on the last generated frame, is visible but modest, suggesting that the model maintains coherent scene state across autoregressive transitions. 

## Discussion 

Our results show that training on a large, diverse surgical dataset improves both task perfor-mance and robustness of foundation VLA policies. GR00T-H was the only model to achieve full end-to-end task completion on SutureBot, and it consistently outperformed ACT and the base GR00T-N1.6 model under out-of-distribution conditions and with limited fine-tuning 19 data. These findings suggest that the scale and diversity of Open-H provide a surgical prior that transfers across tasks, embodiments, and environments. The data bottleneck constrain-ing surgical robot learning is not fully resolved, but it can be meaningfully reduced through large-scale data collection paired with healthcare-specific foundation model post-training. Our evaluation also revealed an interesting finding about policy robustness to hard-ware variation. Over the course of the evaluation period, the experimental setup underwent changes typical of long-running robot deployments: surgical instruments accumulated me-chanical wear that shifted their cable-driven kinematics, and wrist cameras required replace-ment with units of slightly different optical properties. ACT was sensitive to these changes and performed below its originally reported results ( 25 ). GR00T-H, on the other hand, still achieved 25% end-to-end task completion under the same conditions. This suggests that post-training on the diverse Open-H dataset makes the policy more resilient to the kind of gradual hardware drift that is common in real surgical environments, where instrument wear and camera replacements are routine. Post-training on Open-H also appears to improve data efficiency. GR00T-H matches ACT with only 33% of the full fine-tuning dataset and outperforms the GR00T-N1.6 baseline at 100%. This suggests that post-training on Open-H provides a stronger starting point for learning new surgical tasks, which is useful for institutions that want to adapt the model to new platforms or procedures without collecting large amounts of local data. The multi-embodiment results further support this interpretation: GR00T-H shows consistent gains across different robotic platforms, suggesting the learned representations are not specific to a single robot’s kinematics. Open-H also enables a new class of world foundation model for surgical simulation. Cosmos-H-Surgical-Simulator is, to our knowledge, the first kinematic action-conditioned world model that supports multi-embodiment surgical video generation from a single check-point, spanning nine robotic platforms. Prior surgical world models ( 32 ) have been limited to a single platform; C-H-S-S extends this to any embodiment in its training distribution with-out platform-specific retraining. The per-frame L1 and SSIM evaluation confirms that the model maintains visual fidelity over 72-frame autoregressive rollouts, with the performance gap between benchtop and tissue-based scenes tracking the inherent difficulty of the under-20 lying environments. Prior work on the dVRK platform ( 32 ) has further demonstrated that action-conditioned world models of this kind can serve as simulation environments for closed-loop policy evaluation. Open-H can therefore support not just policy training but also world models, visual encoders for instrument and tissue understanding, and language-conditioned planning systems, making it useful as shared infrastructure for the broader surgical robotics community. Several limitations of the current work must be addressed before these methods could be applied in animal or human surgical settings. In ex vivo evaluation, GR00T-H performs well on structured steps like needle pickup, handover, and knot tying, reaching near-perfect success on many of these. However, performance drops on subtasks requiring fine instrument coordination under tissue contact, with cutting steps reaching only 20–30% success. The overall average of 64% across the full 29-step ex vivo suturing sequence, and 25% end-to-end completion on the SutureBot benchmark, are encouraging but well below what would be needed for reliable autonomous execution. All evaluations are conducted on tissue phantoms and benchtop ex vivo tissue in controlled lab settings. How the policy performs on live tissue, which varies in stiffness, bleeds, and moves, is not yet known. The policy also has no way to detect or respond to unexpected events such as tissue tearing, instrument failures, or patient movement, all of which are important safety considerations for any real deployment. Errors also tend to compound across long task sequences, which limits end-to-end completion rates even when individual tasks are performed reliably. More data from a wider range of institu-tions, procedures, and tissue types will be needed for the model to generalize to the variety of cases seen in clinical practice. While initial procedural annotations covering approximately 205 hours of Versius-500 clinical data are released alongside the dataset, richer labels in-cluding instrument state, tissue contact events, and failure modes will be needed to address the fine-contact steps where the model currently struggles the most. Pre-clinical evaluation in animal models, with appropriate regulatory oversight, is a necessary next step before any component of this pipeline could be considered for use in humans. LingBot-VA, which leverages a world foundation model backbone as opposed to a VLM backbone, represents a promising but distinct architectural class for robot learning. Its comparatively rapid per-formance degradation across subsequent end-to-end suturing subtasks does not necessarily 21 reflect the potential of the architecture, as several factors remain unexplored. The model was post-trained on a 50-hour dVRK-focused subset of Open-H, roughly an order of magnitude less data than GR00T-H’s 601-hour surgical mixture. World action models also introduce extensive training and inference parameters, including action and video denoising schedules, KV cache update frequency, video frame rate, and context history length, all of which require further exploration to properly adapt these models to surgical tasks. Determining the appro-priate data recipe and inference configuration for world action models on dexterous surgical data is an important direction for future work. Regarding C-H-S-S, the L1 and SSIM eval-uation relies on open-loop replay of recorded action sequences. In closed-loop deployment, where actions come from a policy or a surgeon’s console reacting to the model’s own gen-erated frames, no such ground truth exists, and pixel-level metrics are no longer applicable. More broadly, L1 and SSIM are scene-level measures that do not capture surgery-specific aspects of generation quality, such as whether instruments are rendered in the correct posi-tion or whether tool-tissue interactions are physically plausible. Developing domain-specific metrics, such as spatial consistency of generated instruments against ground-truth tool tra-jectories or fidelity of tool-tip localization across frames, is an important open problem. Early experiments with segmentation-based metrics such as generated-vs-actual tool consistency and tool centroid distance showed promise on individual platforms but proved insufficiently robust across the diversity of embodiments and visual conditions. Additionally, the Open-H dataset predominantly comprises successful task demonstrations. Prior work has shown that failure episodes are a critical factor for surgical world model training ( 32 ). Future data col-lection efforts should explicitly include such failure trajectories to improve the realism and coverage of surgical world models. Extending the automated closed-loop evaluation pipeline demonstrated for a single platform ( 32 ) to the multi-embodiment setting of C-H-S-S is an important next step. 22 Materials and Methods 

The Open-H Dataset 

While large-scale, multi-embodiment datasets have driven rapid progress in general-purpose robotics, assembling a comparable corpus for healthcare robotics introduces challenges that are largely absent from that setting. In general-purpose robotics, foundational policy research is predominantly conducted on purpose-built platforms such as the Franka Panda ( 18 ), Unitree G1 ( 21 ), and ALOHA ( 26 ). These platforms provide integrated hardware and software that support teleoperation and data collection with minimal additional engineering. In healthcare robotics, by contrast, re-search is largely conducted on devices engineered for clinical use rather than for robotics research. Most contributing institutions have therefore developed their own suites of pro-prietary hardware, software, and interfaces to repurpose these medical devices for modern robotics workflows. Creating a multi-institution, multi-embodiment healthcare-robotics dataset that is usable 

by downstream researchers is constrained by two principal challenges: 1. Inconsistent data formatting. Training downstream models on dozens of indepen-dently formatted datasets requires detailed knowledge of each collection’s schema to convert the complete corpus into a unified representation. 2. Opaque platform nuances. The diversity of hardware and task families in health-care robotics introduces considerations that are not self-evident from the data alone, such as surgical clutching mechanisms that invalidate portions of recorded kinematics, multi-arm systems in which only a subset of visible instruments are actively controlled, and variation in operator skill level (e.g., expert surgeon versus machine-learning re-searcher). To address these concerns, Open-H adopts two complementary strategies: all constituent datasets are converted into a unified LeRobot v2.1 format, and each dataset is accompanied by a consistently structured README that discloses platform-specific nuances to down-stream users. 23 Data Formatting: We adopt the LeRobot v2.1 format as the standard representation for all Open-H data on the basis of its storage efficiency and broad community adoption ( 33 ). The format stores low-dimensional kinematics in columnar Parquet files and visual obser-vations as hardware-accelerated, lossy MP4 video, reducing the overall storage footprint by up to 98% compared to formats such as RLDS or HDF5 ( 34 ). Healthcare-robotics tasks, however, frequently require contextual metadata that falls outside the standard LeRobot schema for video, kinematics, and task prompts, including modality-specific parameters (e.g., ultrasound acquisition settings), task-level annotations (e.g., surgical phase and active in-strument identity), and other domain-relevant fields. To accommodate these requirements without breaking compatibility with the core LeRobot library, we developed the Open-H data-collection repository ( 35 ), which provides standardized guidelines and examples for extending the LeRobot schema with healthcare-specific fields. 

Documentation: Even with a unified storage format, the practical utility of an aggregate dataset at this scale depends on whether downstream users can understand the collection-specific details of each constituent contribution. To this end, every Open-H dataset includes a structured README that follows a common template. The template captures the robot type(s) used, the data-collection method (e.g., teleoperation or autonomous execution), the operator skill level (e.g., expert surgeon or machine-learning researcher), the data synchro-nization strategy employed, the dimensions of data diversity (e.g., camera positioning, en-vironment, and lighting variation), the kinematic representation (e.g., absolute Cartesian or relative joint space), and additional domain-relevant fields. The complete template with all recorded fields is available in ( 35 ). 

Clinical Procedure Annotation: The clinical procedures in the Versius-500 contribu-tion present a distinct challenge for downstream learning. Unlike tabletop manipulation tasks, where the correct next action is largely determined by a single observation frame, clinical surgical procedures are temporally extended and non-Markovian: from a given endoscopic image, the next action is not immediately clear, as it depends on temporal context, clinical and patient history, as well as surgeon preference. To support future research that leverages 24 this structure, we release initial annotations alongside the dataset. For Versius-500-inguinal-hernia, 13 episodes covering approximately 32 minutes of procedure video were manually annotated at the pixel and frame level (5 FPS) with instrument and anatomy segmentation masks and action classifications. For Versius-500-cholecystectomy, we manually annotated 500 minutes of phase-level and gesture-level labels, and for Versius-500-hysterectomy, 1000 minutes phase-level labels. We fine-tuned LemonFM ( 36 ), a surgical video foundation model pretrained on 938 hours of endoscopic video, on this manually annotated data, and gener-ated labels for the full 80 hours of Versius-500-cholecystectomy and 124 hours of Versius-500-hysterectomy. Evaluated against a held-out test subset of Versius-500 data, the model achieves phase accuracy of approximately 0.65 and gesture accuracy of 0.56 on cholecystec-tomy, and phase accuracy of 0.75 on hysterectomy. 

GR00T-H 

The Open-H dataset supports a range of downstream applications, from monocular depth estimation models to world models, though its most immediate use is as a pre-training corpus for healthcare-focused manipulation policies. To test whether domain-specific data at this scale can close the transfer gap documented above, we train GR00T-H, a surgical foundation policy built on the GR00T-N1.6-3B vision-language-action model (VLA). We build GR00T-H on GR00T-N1.6-3B ( 21 ) due to the strong foundation it establishes for training an imitation learning policy on the multimodal and multi-embodiment Open-H corpus. The model’s extensive pre-training on diverse real and synthetic manipulation data provides a meaningful initialization for the dexterous, long-horizon tasks common in surgical robotics. Its Cosmos-2B VLM backbone encodes images at flexible resolution, accom-modating the heterogeneous resolutions and aspect ratios across healthcare-specific robotic embodiments. Furthermore, its embodiment-specific action heads allow each robot configu-ration to learn its own output projection, an important feature when training across diverse robot embodiments with varying kinematic output distributions. GR00T-H is adapted from the upstream foundation model using an Open-H post-training phase. For this post-training, we select a 601-hour surgical subset of the full 770-hour Open-H corpus, isolating the largest and most coherent subgroup: real-world surgical tasks. Thus, 25 only real-world surgical datasets were used in the training of GR00T-H; we leave training and evaluating policies that generalize across ultrasound, endoscopy, and simulation data for future work. For the sampled real-world surgical subset, the Versius-500 contribution dominates by volume. Therefore, we cap its sampling frequency at 20% of training steps to prevent any single embodiment, environment, or task family from dominating the loss signal. The remaining datasets are sampled proportionally to their size in the corpus. The full training mixture is provided in Table S3. To establish a common kinematic learning space across embodiments, we normalize all datasets to use relative end-effector (EEF) control with 6D rotation matrices ( 37 ) for the orientation component. Relative actions remove the requirement for the model to learn each unique embodiment’s forward kinematics, a necessity under joint-space control, and improve robustness to variation in workspace position and scale, following the relative action formu-lation adopted in prior surgical policy work ( 6). To accommodate the heterogeneous kinematics across the Open-H corpus, we leverage GR00T-N1.6’s embodiment-specific action heads, where each unique robot configuration learns its own MLP projection from the DiT action expert outputs to the normalized action space. We assign a distinct action head to each robot configuration rather than sharing heads across datasets collected on the same platform. This accommodates a practical constraint of cable-driven surgical robots: cable stretch, hysteresis, and wear characteristics vary across individual machines, and different instrument types introduce further variation in tool-tip kinematic mapping. A shared projection would conflate these instance-specific differences, degrading action prediction accuracy. To ensure well-normalized kinematic values across robot configurations, we collect per-dataset normalization statistics and merge them into per-configuration statistics at train time via weighted moment matching, where the weights correspond to training-mixture sampling ratios. Statistics are computed per action dimension and per temporal step within the action chunk to preserve resolution for near-future actions ( 38 ). We apply z-score normalization with [−5, 5] clipping to faithfully model each configuration’s kinematic distribution while excluding extreme outliers. The design decisions described above, including the data mixture, action normalization 26 scheme, embodiment-specific action heads, and kinematic normalization strategy, were itera-tively refined using a combination of real-world evaluation and Cosmos-Surg-dVRK ( 32 ), an automated evaluation pipeline. Validation loss on held-out demonstrations is a poor proxy for closed-loop task success in imitation learning, making standard early-stopping criteria unreliable for checkpoint selection. Cosmos-Surg-dVRK addresses this by using an action-conditioned world model (architecturally identical to C-H-S-S, trained on monocular Suture-Bot data) to autoregressively render full task-length rollouts from the policy under evalu-ation, after which a finetuned V-JEPA 2 ( 39 ) labels the generated video with per-subtask success rates. Prior work established a strong Pearson correlation between this pipeline’s automated scores and real-world success rates on the dVRK ( 32 ). During GR00T-H de-velopment, Cosmos-Surg-dVRK served as a practical screening tool to narrow the space of checkpoint iterations and training hyperparameters before committing physical robot time. Using this iteratively validated recipe, the final Open-H post-training run takes 65,000 steps of full-weight training with a global batch size of 1,024 on the 601-hour surgical sub-set. The complete post-training configuration, including optimizer, learning rate schedule, and augmentation parameters, is provided in Table S2. For downstream use, including all evaluations in this work, we recommend an additional fine-tuning stage in which the VLM backbone is frozen and only the action prediction components are fine-tuned on the target task, following the protocol established in GR00T-N1.6 ( 21 ). This preserves the healthcare-domain representations acquired during post-training while efficiently specializing the action expert DiT to the target task distribution. 

Cosmos-H-Surgical-Simulator 

Beyond policy learning, the Open-H dataset enables fine-tuning of world foundation models for surgical robotics simulation. Kinematic action-conditioned video generation models that predict future visual observations given a current frame and a sequence of kinematic actions are a promising frontier for in silico surgical policy evaluation and synthetic data genera-tion (SDG). By learning the visual dynamics of instrument-tissue interaction, such models can provide a low-cost evaluation environment for surgical policies before physical deploy-ment, as previously demonstrated for the dVRK platform ( 32 ) and in the development of 27 GR00T-H. We extend this paradigm to the multi-embodiment setting by fine-tuning Cosmos-Predict 2.5 ( 31 ), a 2B-parameter latent video diffusion transformer, on the surgical subset of Open-H, producing the Cosmos-H-Surgical-Simulator checkpoint. Cosmos-Predict 2.5 is a diffusion transformer (DiT) that generates video in the latent space of a pre-trained vari-ational autoencoder. An MLP conditions the denoiser on per-timestep kinematic actions, enabling action-conditioned next-frame prediction. Given a single context frame and a se-quence of 12 action vectors, the model generates 12 subsequent frames. Through autoregres-sive rollout, the model produces videos covering complete surgical trajectories. We adopt the publicly released Cosmos-Predict 2.5-2B-Video2World weights as initialization and fine-tune on Open-H surgical data with a unified 44-dimensional action space that accommodates all embodiments via zero-padding. The C-H-S-S training mixture comprises 32 datasets from 9 robot embodiments and 10+ institutions. CMR Surgical Versius-500 accounts for 50% of the training compute across four clinical procedures (cholecystectomy, prostatectomy, inguinal hernia, hysterectomy), while the remaining 50% is distributed proportionally by frame count across dVRK variants (JHU, Stanford, Hamlyn, UCSD, UCB), Turin MITIC, USTC Torin, and Moon Surgical platforms. All action representations are converted to a hybrid-relative format (relative translation + 6D rotation) and z-score normalized per-embodiment. The full dataset specification and mixture ratios are detailed in Table S4. Fine-tuning uses fused AdamW with a learning rate of 1.6 × 10 −4, linear decay schedule with warm-up, and a global batch size of 1,024, running for 42,000 steps on 64 A100 80 GB GPUs. Video resolution is 512 × 288 (16:9). The model processes 13 frames per sample (1 context + 12 prediction) with 12 corresponding action timesteps. Each embodiment’s native kinematic frequency is downsampled to a consistent ∼10 fps effective rate via embodiment-specific timestep strides. To quantitatively assess generation fidelity, we replay recorded action sequences from held-out test episodes through C-H-S-S and compare the generated video frame-by-frame against the ground-truth recording. Each episode is rolled out for 6 autoregressive chunks (72 generated frames). We report two pixel-level metrics: L1 (mean absolute error in [0 , 1] 

pixel space), which measures overall pixel fidelity, and SSIM (structural similarity index), 28 which captures perceptual structural correspondence. Evaluation covers 25 of the 32 training datasets (7 are excluded because their test-split episodes are shorter than the 72-frame evaluation horizon). For each dataset, 2 episodes are drawn from the 5% held-out test split using a fixed selection seed, and each episode is generated with 3 independent random seeds, yielding up to 150 episode evaluations in total. To isolate generation variability from cross-dataset differences, we aggregate by first computing the per-frame mean across all episodes within each seed, then reporting the mean and standard deviation across the 3 seed-level means. Results are stratified into benchtop (18 datasets: bench procedures) and tissue-based (7 datasets: clinical, cadaver, and ex vivo tissue) categories. 29 References 

1. G. Plc, The Complexities of Physician Supply and Demand: Projections From 2021 to 2036 , Tech. rep., AAMC, Washington, DC (2024). 2. S. Moffatt-Bruce, J. Crestanello, D. P. Way, T. E. Williams Jr, Providing cardiothoracic services in 2035: signs of trouble ahead. The Journal of thoracic and cardiovascular surgery 155 (2), 824–829 (2018). 3. T. Haidegger, Autonomy for surgical robots: Concepts and paradigms. IEEE Transac-tions on Medical Robotics and Bionics 1 (2), 65–76 (2019). 4. S. Schmidgall, J. D. Opfermann, J. W. Kim, A. Krieger, Will your next surgeon be a robot? Autonomy and AI in robotic surgery. Science robotics 10 (104), eadt0187 (2025). 5. P. Kazanzides, et al. , An open-source research kit for the da Vinci ® Surgical System, in 

2014 IEEE international conference on robotics and automation (ICRA) (IEEE) (2014), pp. 6434–6439. 6. J. W. Kim, et al. , Surgical Robot Transformer (SRT): Imitation Learning for Surgical Tasks, in Proceedings of the 8th Conference on Robot Learning (CoRL 2024) (2024). 7. Y. Long, et al. , Surgical embodied intelligence for generalized task autonomy in laparo-scopic robot-assisted surgery. Science Robotics 10 (104), eadt3093 (2025). 8. T. Brown, et al. , Language Models are Few-Shot Learners. Advances in Neural Informa-tion Processing Systems 33 , 1877–1901 (2020). 9. J. Devlin, M.-W. Chang, K. Lee, K. Toutanova, BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirec-tional Transformers for Language Understanding, in Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (2019), pp. 4171–4186. 10. A. Dosovitskiy, et al. , An Image is Worth 16x16 Words: Transformers for Image Recog-nition at Scale, in International Conference on Learning Representations (2021). 30 11. A. Radford, et al. , Learning Transferable Visual Models From Natural Language Supervi-sion, in Proceedings of the 38th International Conference on Machine Learning (PMLR) (2021), pp. 8748–8763. 12. K. He, et al. , Masked Autoencoders Are Scalable Vision Learners, in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (2022), pp. 16000–16009. 13. Open X-Embodiment Collaboration, Open X-Embodiment: Robotic Learning Datasets and RT-X Models, in IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA) (2024). 14. A. Brohan, et al. , RT-1: Robotics Transformer for Real-World Control at Scale, in 

Robotics: Science and Systems (RSS) (2023). 15. B. Zitkovich, et al. , Rt-2: Vision-language-action models transfer web knowledge to robotic control, in Conference on Robot Learning (PMLR) (2023), pp. 2165–2183. 16. Octo Model Team, et al. , Octo: An Open-Source Generalist Robot Policy. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.12213 (2024). 17. R. Doshi, H. Walke, O. Mees, S. Dasari, S. Levine, Scaling Cross-Embodied Learn-ing: One Policy for Manipulation, Navigation, Locomotion and Aviation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.11812 (2024). 18. M. J. Kim, et al. , Openvla: An open-source vision-language-action model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.09246 (2024). 19. AgiBot-World-Contributors, et al. , AgiBot World Colosseo: A Large-Scale Manip-ulation Platform for Scalable and Intelligent Embodied Systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.06669 (2025). 20. G. R. Team, et al. , Gemini robotics 1.5: Pushing the frontier of generalist robots with advanced embodied reasoning, thinking, and motion transfer. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.03342 (2025). 31 21. J. Bjorck, et al. , Gr00t n1: An open foundation model for generalist humanoid robots. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.14734 (2025). 22. M. J. Kim, et al. , Cosmos Policy: Fine-Tuning Video Models for Visuomotor Control and Planning, in The Fourteenth International Conference on Learning Representations 

(2026), https://openreview.net/forum?id=wPEIStHxYH .23. S. Ye, et al. , World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies (2026), https://arxiv.org/ abs/2602.15922 .24. L. Li, et al. , Causal World Modeling for Robot Control (2026), https://arxiv.org/ abs/2601.21998 .25. J. Haworth, et al. , SutureBot: A Precision Framework & Benchmark for Autonomous End-to-End Suturing, in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), Datasets and Benchmarks Track (2025). 26. K. Black, et al. , π0: A Vision-Language-Action Flow Model for General Robot Control, in Robotics: Science and Systems (RSS) (2025). 27. T. Z. Zhao, V. Kumar, S. Levine, C. Finn, Learning fine-grained bimanual manipulation with low-cost hardware. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.13705 (2023). 28. Y. Gao, et al. , JHU-ISI Gesture and Skill Assessment Working Set (JIGSAWS): A Sur-gical Activity Dataset for Human Motion Modeling, in Modeling and Monitoring of Computer Assisted Interventions (M2CAI) – MICCAI Workshop (2014). 29. K.-H. Oh, et al. , Expanded Comprehensive Robotic Cholecystectomy Dataset (CRCD). 

Journal of Medical Robotics Research (2025). 30. P. Hansen, et al. , ImitateCholec: A Multimodal Dataset for Long-Horizon Imitation Learning in Robotic Cholecystectomy. Scientific Data 13 (1), 210 (2026). 31. A. Ali, et al. , World simulation with video foundation models for physical ai. arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.00062 (2025). 32 32. L. Zbinden, et al. , Cosmos-Surg-DVRK: World Foundation Model-Based Automated Online Evaluation of Surgical Robot Policy Learning. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters 11 (5), 5978–5985 (2026), doi:10.1109/LRA.2026.3675962. 33. R. Cadene, et al. , LeRobot: An Open-Source Library for End-to-End Robot Learning, in 

The Fourteenth International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) (2026). 34. K. Chen, et al. , Robo-DM: Data Management For Large Robot Datasets, in Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA) (2025). 35. Open-H Initiative, Open-H-Embodiment: Data Contribution How-To Guide and Scripts, 

https://github.com/open-h/open-h-embodiment (2026), accessed: 2026-04-02. 36. C. Che, C. Wang, T. Vercauteren, S. Tsoka, L. C. Garcia-Peraza-Herrera, LEMON: A Large Endoscopic MONocular Dataset and Foundation Model for Perception in Surgi-cal Settings, in IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) (2026), arXiv:2503.19740. 37. Y. Zhou, C. Barnes, J. Lu, J. Yang, H. Li, On the Continuity of Rotation Representa-tions in Neural Networks, in IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) (2019), pp. 5745–5753. 38. T. L. Team, et al. , A Careful Examination of Large Behavior Models for Multitask Dexterous Manipulation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.05331 (2025). 39. M. Assran, et al. , V-JEPA 2: Self-Supervised Video Models Enable Understanding, Pre-diction and Planning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.09985 (2025). 40. L. Li, et al. , Causal World Modeling for Robot Control. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.21998 

(2026). 

## Acknowledgments 

We would like to thank the many institutions, companies, researchers, and students who participated in this effort; without their contributions, this dataset would not have been 33 possible. 

Funding: This material is based on work supported by the following funding sources: NIH R56EB033807 (A.K.), ARPA-H award 75N91023C00048 (J.C., Xin.C., A.K.), ARPA-H award AY1AX000023 (J.G., E.K., A.K.), ARPA-H award D24AC00415-00 (N.Y., A.K.), NSF CAREER Award 2144348 (A.K.), and NSF Graduate Research Fellowship 2023354859 (Je.H.). Pe.K. and Hao.Z. were partially supported by NSF AccelNet awards 1927354 (JHU) and 1927275 (WPI). A.M.O.’s contribution was supported by the Stanford Institute for Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence and the Stanford Robotics Center. A.E.A.’s contri-bution was supported by the Stanford Institute for Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence. T.H., E.L. and K.T. were partially supported by Project 2024-1.2.3-HU-RIZONT-00069, implemented with the support provided by the Ministry of Culture and Innovation of Hun-gary from the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund, financed under the 2024-1.2.3-HU-RIZONT funding scheme. T.H. is a consolidator researcher, supported by the Distinguished Researcher Program of Óbuda University. Zh.C., Yam.Z., T.Y., and Yun.T. were funded by the Multi-scale Medical Robotics Center, AIR@InnoHK. Xia.C. was funded by the Multi-scale Medical Robotics Center, AIR@InnoHK and Direct Grants (The Chinese University of Hong Kong) under Grant 4055245. P.V., D.J., B.C., and Ju.H. were sup-ported by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) under Grants EP/V047914/1 and UKRI180 and by the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) Leeds Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) (NIHR203331). J.L., M.S., G.W., Zi.H., E.W., and H.R. were supported by the NSFC Young Scientists Fund - Scheme A T252500134, the Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST) of China Key Project 2025YFE0122500, and the Hong Kong Research Grants Council (RGC) General Research Fund (GRF 14204524, 14206125). E.W., Ru.J., Z.L., N.Z., Xi.Z., and H.R. received funding from NSFC/RGC Joint Research Scheme (N_CUHK420/22). X.G. and H.C. were supported by the Hong Kong Re-search Grants Council Early Career Scheme grant 22203525. Mat.W., Pr.K., Sab.M., and M.N. received funding from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and agreement No 857533. The contribution was made within the project of the Minister of Science and Higher Education "Support for the activity of Centers of Excellence established in Poland 34 under Horizon 2020" on the basis of the contract number MEiN/2023/DIR/3796. Ra.Y., O.H., Mar.W., S.B., and S.S. were supported by the German Research Foundation (DFG, Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft) as part of Germany’s Excellence Strategy - EXC 2050/1 - Project ID 390696704 - Cluster of Excellence “Centre for Tactile Internet with Human-in-the-Loop” (CeTI). A.R.J. was supported by the Federal Ministry of Research, Technology, and Space (BMFTR) as part of the research program Communication Systems “Souverän. Digital. Vernetzt.”. Joint project 6G-life, project identification number: 16KIS2413K. Lo.M. was supported by the project “Next Generation AI Computing (gAIn),” funded by the Bavarian Ministry of Science and the Arts and the Saxon Ministry for Science, Culture, and Tourism. F.A., M.R.J., Si.K., and So.K. were supported by the National Cancer Institute of the National Institutes of Health under Award Number R21CA280747, the IC2 Institute, and Texas Robotics Seed Collaborative Funding at the University of Texas at Austin. Al.A., Giu.D., Fe.B., Ke.H., Gio.D., Fed.L., Lu.M., and C.A.A. were supported by the European Research Council (ERC) under the Horizon Europe programme (Grant EndoTheranostics, Grant Agreement No. 101118626, https://doi.org/10.3030/101118626), Funded by the Eu-ropean Union. Views and opinions expressed are, however, those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European Union, the European Research Council Ex-ecutive Agency, or the Health and Digital Executive Agency. Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them. 

Author contributions: Data Contribution: Everyone, Conceptualization: N.N., J.C., D.H., Z.J., A.K., S.D.H., M.A.; Methodology: N.N., J.C., A.K., S.D.H., L.Z.; Evaluation: N.N., J.C., Je.H., Xin.C., D.G.M., P.T.; Software: N.N., J.C., L.Z.; Visualization: N.N., J.C., Je.H., L.Z.; Data Curation: N.N., J.C., Xin.C., D.H.; Formal analysis: N.N., Je.H.; Funding acqui-sition: A.K., S.D.H., M.A., Na.N.; Supervision: A.K., S.D.H., M.A., Na.N.; Writing - original draft: Je.H., N.N., J.C., Xin.C., L.Z.; Writing - review and editing: Je.H., N.N., J.C., Xin.C., L.Z., A.K., S.D.H., Al.K., A.M.O., K.G., T.H., Pe.K.; 

Competing interests: The following authors declare competing interests. All other au-thors have no competing interests to declare. 35 • A.K. is a co-founder of Semaphor Surgical. 

• F.F. receives consultant fees from Boston Scientific and Johnson & Johnson. F.F. has received research grants from Intuitive Surgical. 

• A.M.O. has received research grants from Intuitive Surgical. 

Data and materials availability: The Open-H-Embodiment dataset is publicly avail-able on Hugging Face under a CC-BY-4.0 license at https://huggingface.co/datasets/ nvidia/PhysicalAI-Robotics-Open-H-Embodiment . Data collection guidelines, conversion scripts, and validation tools are maintained in the Open-H data collection repository at 

https://github.com/open-h/open-h-embodiment . GR00T-H model weights are available at https://huggingface.co/nvidia/GR00T-H , with training and inference code at https: //github.com/NVIDIA-Medtech/GR00T-H . LingBot-VA-Suture model weights are available at https://huggingface.co/semaphorsurgical/lingbot-va-suture , with code at https: //github.com/semaphor-surgical/lingbot-va-suture . Cosmos-H-Surgical-Simulator model weights are available at https://huggingface.co/nvidia/Cosmos-H-Surgical-Simulator ,with training, inference, and evaluation code at https://github.com/NVIDIA-Medtech/ Cosmos-H-Surgical-Simulator . All materials needed to reproduce the results in this pa-per are accessible through these repositories without restriction beyond the stated licenses. 

Supplementary materials 

Supplementary Text Figure S1 Tables S1 to S4 Movies S1 to S3 36 Supplementary Materials for Open-H-Embodiment: A Large-Scale Dataset for Enabling Foundation Models in Medical Robotics 

Open-H-Embodiment Consortium Nigel Nelson, et al. 

This PDF file includes: 

Supplementary Text Figure S1 Tables S1 to S4 Movies S1 to S3 S1 Supplementary Text 

World Action Model Baseline: LingBot-VA 

To assess whether video-based world-action modeling offers a viable alternative for accurate action prediction in surgical autonomy, we adapt LingBot-VA ( 40 ) to the SutureBot suturing task, producing LingBot-VA-Suture. LingBot-VA-Suture is initialized from the Wan2.2-5B video diffusion model: at each autoregressive step it predicts a chunk of future latent vi-sual states via conditional flow matching and simultaneously decodes the corresponding end-effector actions through inverse dynamics. This formulation decouples visual dynamics modeling from action control, in contrast to GR00T-H and ACT, which couple both within a single observation-to-action mapping. 

Surgical Adaptation. We follow a two-stage procedure. The base LingBot-VA check-point is first further pretrained on 50 hours of JHU IMERSE dVRK-Si datasets from Open-H-Embodiment to acquire surgical visual and kinematic priors, and then post-trained on the SutureBot dataset at a reduced learning rate. LingBot-VA-Suture processes three syn-chronized camera views (endoscope, left wrist, and right wrist) and outputs 16-dimensional actions (7-DoF end-effector pose plus gripper jaw angle per arm) at a chunk size of 48 actions at 30 Hz with quantile-based action normalization, together with video predictions at 10 Hz. 

Table S1 : Complete Open-H-Embodiment dataset inventory. Each row corresponds to one contributed dataset in the final release. The Scale column lists episodes / frames / hours. A dagger ( †) after the dataset name indicates that ground-truth kinematics are not included in the released dataset. Abbreviations: Ster. = stereo endoscope, Endo. = endoscope, US = ultrasound, Wr. = wrist camera, D = depth, TPV = third-person view, Seg. = segmentation, HO = handover, PU = pickup, Sim. = simulated/simulation, Bench = benchtop/phantom, Clin. = clinical, Ex V. = ex vivo, In V. = in vivo.          

> Group Dataset Domain / Task [Env.] Scale Robot Views
> Balgrist sonogym_open_h_US_ guidance_L1 US – Robotic US (US Guidance) [Sim.] 1,024 ep 183,296 fr 0.42 h Sim. KUKA Med14 US Balgrist sonogym_open_h_US_ guidance_L2 US – Robotic US (US Guidance) [Sim.] 1,024 ep 183,296 fr 0.42 h Sim. KUKA Med14 US
> Continued on next page

S2 Table S1 continued 

Group Dataset Domain / Task [Env.] Scale Robot Views 

Balgrist sonogym_open_h_US_ guidance_L3 US – Robotic US (US Guidance) [Sim.] 1,024 ep 183,296 fr 0.42 h Sim. KUKA Med14 US Balgrist sonogym_open_h_US_ guidance_L4 US – Robotic US (US Guidance) [Sim.] 1,024 ep 183,296 fr 0.42 h Sim. KUKA Med14 US Balgrist sonogym_open_h_US_ guidance_L5 US – Robotic US (US Guidance) [Sim.] 1,024 ep 183,296 fr 0.42 h Sim. KUKA Med14 US Balgrist ultrabones_lerobot_ dataset_full US – Robotic US (US Scan) [Bench] 60 ep 90,371 fr 1.20 h Sim. KUKA Med14 US Balgrist ultrabones_lerobot_ dataset_full_2 US – Robotic US (US Scan) [Bench] 12 ep 20,668 fr 0.27 h Sim. KUKA Med14 US Balgrist ultrabones_lerobot_ dataset_full_2_ synthetic_robot_2 US – Robotic US (US Scan) [Sim.] 12 ep 20,668 fr 0.27 h Sim. KUKA Med14 US Balgrist ultrabones_lerobot_ dataset_full_3 US – Robotic US (US Scan) [Bench] 18 ep 24,104 fr 0.32 h Sim. KUKA Med14 US Balgrist ultrabones_lerobot_ dataset_full_3_ synthetic_robot_2 US – Robotic US (US Scan) [Sim.] 18 ep 24,104 fr 0.32 h Sim. KUKA Med14 US Balgrist ultrabones_lerobot_ dataset_full_synthetic_ robot US – Robotic US (US Scan) [Sim.] 60 ep 90,371 fr 1.20 h Sim. KUKA Med14 US CMR Surg. cholecystectomy Surg. – Cholecystectomy (Chole.) [Clin.] 4,792 ep 16,999,777 fr 78.70 h Versius Endo. CMR Surg. drybox Surg. – Skills Benchmark (Peg Transfer) [Bench] 480 ep 1,677,540 fr 7.77 h Versius Endo. CMR Surg. hysterectomy Surg. – Hysterectomy (Hysterect.) [Clin.] 7,432 ep 26,374,851 fr 122.11 h Versius Endo. CMR Surg. inguinal_hernia Surg. – Hernia Repair (Hernia Rep.) [Clin.] 7,286 ep 25,807,467 fr 119.48 h Versius Endo. CMR Surg. peg_transfer_extra Surg. – Skills Benchmark (Peg Transfer) [Bench] 216 ep 762,828 fr 3.53 h Versius Endo. CMR Surg. prostatectomy Surg. – Prostatectomy (Prostatect.) [Clin.] 10,329 ep 36,516,224 fr 169.06 h Versius Endo. CUHK bmt_insertion_dataset US – US-Guided Interv. (Needle Ins.) [Ex V.] 847 ep 814,451 fr 7.54 h UR5e US, TPV CUHK bmt_insertion_tumor_ fishball_dataset US – US-Guided Interv. (Needle Ins.) [Ex V.] 414 ep 401,977 fr 3.72 h UR5e US, TPV CUHK bmt_insertion_vessel_ dataset US – US-Guided Interv. (Needle Ins.) [Ex V.] 665 ep 637,649 fr 5.90 h UR5e US, TPV CUHK bmt_needle_insertion_ dataset US – US-Guided Interv. (Needle Ins.) [Ex V.] 386 ep 376,835 fr 3.49 h UR5e US, TPV CUHK bmt_tumor(grape)_ insertion_dataset US – US-Guided Interv. (Needle Ins.) [Ex V.] 99 ep 107,054 fr 0.99 h UR5e US, TPV CUHK Find_greater_curvature Endo. – Flex. Endoscopy (Anat. Loc.) [Bench] 462 ep 107,488 fr 1.49 h Custom Endo. Rob. Endo. 

Continued on next page 

S3 Table S1 continued 

Group Dataset Domain / Task [Env.] Scale Robot Views 

CUHK Find_lesser_curvature Endo. – Flex. Endoscopy (Anat. Loc.) [Bench] 200 ep 61,997 fr 0.86 h Custom Endo. Rob. Endo. CUHK Find_pyloric_antrum Endo. – Flex. Endoscopy (Anat. Loc.) [Bench] 204 ep 28,731 fr 0.40 h Custom Endo. Rob. Endo. CUHK Track_orange_lesion Endo. – Flex. Endoscopy (Lesion Track.) [Bench] 156 ep 33,345 fr 0.46 h Custom Endo. Rob. Endo. CUHK Track_small_round_ nodule Endo. – Flex. Endoscopy (Lesion Track.) [Bench] 722 ep 249,461 fr 3.46 h Custom Endo. Rob. Endo. CUHK Track_white_oval_ROI Endo. – Flex. Endoscopy (ROI Track.) [Bench] 414 ep 98,908 fr 1.37 h Custom Endo. Rob. Endo. CUHK Tracked_EUS US – Endo. US (Tracked EUS) [In V.] 34 ep 33,425 fr 0.37 h dVRK Endo., US CUHK Tracked_US US – Robotic US (Tracked US) [Clin.] 30 ep 7,007 fr 0.08 h dVRK US, TPV Hamlyn/ Imperial knot_tying Surg. – Suture/Knot (Knot Tying) [Ex V.] 49 ep 30,222 fr 0.28 h dVRK Endo., Wr., DHamlyn/ Imperial needle_grasp_and_ handover Surg. – Suture/Knot (Needle HO) [Bench] 137 ep 46,582 fr 0.43 h dVRK Endo., Wr., DHamlyn/ Imperial peg_transfer Surg. – Skills Benchmark (Peg Transfer) [Bench] 317 ep 102,187 fr 0.95 h dVRK Endo., Wr., DHamlyn/ Imperial Suturing-1 Surg. – Suture/Knot (Suturing) [Ex V.] 180 ep 100,067 fr 0.93 h dVRK Endo., Wr., DHamlyn/ Imperial Suturing-2 Surg. – Suture/Knot (Suturing) [Ex V.] 186 ep 251,355 fr 2.33 h dVRK Endo., Wr., DHamlyn/ Imperial tissue_lifting Surg. – Tissue Manip. (Lifting) [Ex V.] 75 ep 8,180 fr 0.15 h dVRK Endo., Wr., DHamlyn/ Imperial Tissue_Retraction Surg. – Tissue Manip. (Retraction) [Ex V.] 75 ep 14,160 fr 0.13 h dVRK Endo., Wr., DHKBU 46_datasets_summary US – Robotic US (US Nav.) [Sim.] 6,072 ep 322,000 fr 4.47 h Sim. US Platform US ImFusion ImFusion_dataset_ corrected US – Robotic US (US Scan) [Bench] 1,644 ep 559,897 fr 5.18 h Franka Panda US, Wr., TPV JHU cao_cautery_combined Surg. – Tissue Manip. (Debride.) [Ex V.] 783 ep 52,748 fr 0.49 h dVRK-Si Ster., Wr. JHU cautery Surg. – Tissue Manip. (Debride.) [Ex V.] 22 ep 5,288 fr 0.05 h dVRK-Si Ster., Wr. JHU Cholecystectomy Surg. – Cholecystectomy (Chole.) [Ex V.] 750 ep 181,021 fr 1.68 h dVRK-Si Ster., Wr. JHU endosrt Endo. – Flex. Endoscopy (Endo. Nav.) [Bench] 2,047 ep 193,203 fr 2.15 h Flex. Endo. Platf. Other JHU hf_suturebot Surg. – Suture/Knot (Suturing) [Bench] 1,452 ep 516,334 fr 4.78 h dVRK-Si Ster., Wr. 

Continued on next page 

S4 Table S1 continued 

Group Dataset Domain / Task [Env.] Scale Robot Views 

JHU nephfat Surg. – Tissue Manip. (Debride.) [Bench] 2,112 ep 494,525 fr 4.58 h dVRK-Si Ster., Wr. JHU SurgSync-stitch-coldcut-P1 Surg. – Suture/Knot (Suturing) [Ex V.] 578 ep 53,114 fr 1.48 h dVRK-Si Endo. JHU SurgSync-stitch-coldcut-P2 Surg. – Suture/Knot (Suturing) [Ex V.] 313 ep 32,426 fr 0.90 h dVRK-Si Endo. JHU SurgSync-stitch-coldcut-P3 Surg. – Suture/Knot (Suturing) [Ex V.] 196 ep 17,485 fr 0.49 h dVRK-Si Endo. JHU Prepare to Pierce Surg. – Suture/Knot (Needle Pos.) [Bench] 2 ep 582 fr 0.01 h dVRK-Si Ster. JHU srt_needle_ pickup+handover Surg. – Suture/Knot (Needle PU) [Bench] 240 ep 58,305 fr 0.54 h dVRK Ster., Wr. JHU srt_tissue_lift Surg. – Tissue Manip. (Lifting) [Bench] 225 ep 27,487 fr 0.25 h dVRK Ster., Wr. JHU srth_porcine_chole_fix Surg. – Cholecystectomy (Chole.) [Ex V.] 14,836 ep 1,878,393 fr 17.39 h dVRK-Si Ster., Wr. JHU star_IL Surg. – Suture/Knot (Suturing) [Ex V.] 512 ep 216,140 fr 2.00 h KUKA LBR iiwa Endo., Wr. JHU wound_closure Surg. – Suture/Knot (Suturing) [Bench] 216 ep 1,883,971 fr 17.44 h dVRK-Si Ster., Wr. Moon Surg. moon Surg. – Camera/View Mgmt. (Cam. Guidance) [Clin.] 65 ep 12,020 fr 0.11 h Maestro Endo., TPV Obuda FRS_Dome_1 Surg. – Suture/Knot (Suturing) [Bench] 102 ep 141,078 fr 1.31 h dVRK Ster., Wr., DObuda NeedleThreading_1 Surg. – Suture/Knot (Suturing) [Bench] 196 ep 103,067 fr 0.95 h dVRK Ster., Wr., DObuda NeedleThreading_2 Surg. – Suture/Knot (Suturing) [Bench] 204 ep 102,221 fr 0.95 h dVRK Ster., Wr., DObuda PegTransfer_1 Surg. – Skills Benchmark (Peg Transfer) [Bench] 216 ep 134,832 fr 1.25 h dVRK Ster., Wr., DObuda PegTransfer_2 Surg. – Skills Benchmark (Peg Transfer) [Bench] 184 ep 78,140 fr 0.72 h dVRK Ster., Wr., DObuda Pork_1 Surg. – Tissue Manip. (Grasping) [Ex V.] 318 ep 165,486 fr 1.53 h dVRK Ster., Wr., DObuda Rollercoaster_1 Surg. – Skills Benchmark (Spatial Nav.) [Bench] 95 ep 130,268 fr 1.21 h dVRK Ster., Wr., DObuda Seaspike_1 Surg. – Skills Benchmark (Ring Transfer) [Bench] 207 ep 89,269 fr 0.83 h dVRK Ster., Wr., DObuda Seaspike_2 Surg. – Skills Benchmark (Ring Transfer) [Bench] 153 ep 67,658 fr 0.63 h dVRK Ster., Wr., DObuda Seaspike_3 Surg. – Skills Benchmark (Ring Transfer) [Bench] 219 ep 102,948 fr 0.95 h dVRK Ster., Wr., D

Continued on next page 

S5 Table S1 continued 

Group Dataset Domain / Task [Env.] Scale Robot Views 

Obuda Skinphantom_1 Surg. – Suture/Knot (Suturing) [Bench] 106 ep 41,979 fr 0.39 h dVRK Ster., Wr., DHK PolyU OpenH_Dataset_full Surg. – Cholecystectomy (Retraction) [Sim.] 11,520 ep 5,760,000 fr 53.33 h Sim. dVRK Endo. Rob Surg. all_merged_data (hemicolectomy) Surg. – Clinical Proc. (Hemicolect.) [Clin.] 5 ep 1,003,887 fr 7.98 h BiTrack Endo. Rob Surg. all_merged_data (hysterectomy) Surg. – Clinical Proc. (Hysterect.) [Clin.] 1 ep 1,003,887 fr 1.32 h BiTrack Endo. SanoScience Expert_demonstrations Surg. – Cholecystectomy (Chole.) [Sim.] 5,454 ep 603,054 fr 6.70 h XR Simulator Endo., D, Seg. SanoScience NonExpert_failure Surg. – Cholecystectomy (Chole.) [Sim.] 126 ep 17,622 fr 0.16 h XR Simulator Endo., D, Seg. SanoScience NonExpert_full_ modalities Surg. – Cholecystectomy (Chole.) [Sim.] 6,156 ep 713,070 fr 6.60 h XR Simulator Endo., D, Seg. SanoScience NonExpert_partial_ modalities Surg. – Cholecystectomy (Chole.) [Sim.] 666 ep 58,752 fr 0.54 h XR Simulator Endo. SanoScience NonExpert_recovery Surg. – Cholecystectomy (Chole.) [Sim.] 126 ep 20,376 fr 0.19 h XR Simulator Endo., D, Seg. SanoScience NonExpert_stereo Surg. – Cholecystectomy (Chole.) [Sim.] 1,602 ep 179,640 fr 1.66 h XR Simulator Ster., D, Seg. Semaphor open_h_semaphor Surg. – Suture/Knot (Suturing) [Ex V.] 535 ep 47,050 fr 0.44 h Manual Lap. Tools TPV Semaphor open_h_semaphor_1.18 Surg. – Suture/Knot (Suturing) [Ex V.] 470 ep 50,664 fr 0.47 h Manual Lap. Tools TPV Stanford block_transfer_sim_ lerobot_1_28 Surg. – Skills Benchmark (Peg Transfer) [Sim.] 500 ep 236,968 fr 3.46 h Sim. dVRK Ster. Stanford Needle Transfer Surg. – Suture/Knot (Needle HO) [Bench] 700 ep 313,882 fr 2.91 h dVRK-Si Ster. Stanford needle_transfer_sim_ lerobot_1_28 Surg. – Suture/Knot (Needle HO) [Sim.] 500 ep 229,232 fr 3.35 h Sim. dVRK Ster. Stanford Peg Transfer Surg. – Skills Benchmark (Peg Transfer) [Bench] 598 ep 268,729 fr 2.49 h dVRK-Si Ster. Stanford Tissue Retraction Surg. – Tissue Manip. (Retraction) [Bench] 698 ep 291,826 fr 2.70 h dVRK-Si Ster. TU Dresden endoscope_guidance Surg. – Camera/View Mgmt. (Cam. Guidance) [In V.] 50 ep 58,605 fr 0.54 h UR5e Endo. TU Dresden endoscope_guidance Surg. – Camera/View Mgmt. (Cam. Guidance) [In V.] 50 ep 56,484 fr 0.52 h UR5e Endo. TU Dresden grasping_retraction Surg. – Tissue Manip. (Retraction) [In V.] 116 ep 35,406 fr 0.33 h UR5e Endo. TU Dresden grasping_retraction Surg. – Tissue Manip. (Retraction) [In V.] 146 ep 47,753 fr 0.44 h UR5e Endo. 

Continued on next page 

S6 Table S1 continued 

Group Dataset Domain / Task [Env.] Scale Robot Views 

TUM CAMP SonATA_all US – Robotic US (US Scan) [Bench] 2,397 ep 633,604 fr 5.87 h Franka Panda US, Wr., TPV Turin mitic_lerobot_ex_vivo Surg. – Suture/Knot (Suturing) [Ex V.] 799 ep 388,690 fr 3.60 h dVRK Ster. Turin mitic_lerobot_plastic_ pad Surg. – Suture/Knot (Suturing) [Bench] 550 ep 149,846 fr 1.39 h dVRK Ster. Turin mitic_lerobot_plastic_ pad_3DMED Surg. – Suture/Knot (Suturing) [Bench] 370 ep 243,229 fr 2.25 h dVRK Ster. Turin mitic_lerobot_plastic_ tube Surg. – Suture/Knot (Suturing) [Bench] 480 ep 216,070 fr 2.00 h dVRK Ster. UBC GauzeCutting_merged † Surg. – Benchtop Tasks (Gauze Cut.) [Bench] 234 ep 75,277 fr 0.69 h da Vinci Si Ster. UBC KnotTying_merged † Surg. – Suture/Knot (Knot Tying) [Bench] 523 ep 75,840 fr 0.70 h da Vinci Si Ster. UBC NeedlePassing_merged † Surg. – Suture/Knot (Needle HO) [Bench] 685 ep 70,915 fr 0.67 h da Vinci Si Ster. UBC PegTransfering_ merged †

Surg. – Skills Benchmark (Peg Transfer) [Bench] 550 ep 14,305 fr 0.13 h da Vinci Si Ster. UBC PickAndPlace_merged † Surg. – Tissue Manip. (Grasping) [Bench] 702 ep 35,681 fr 0.33 h da Vinci Si Ster. UBC Suturing_merged † Surg. – Suture/Knot (Suturing) [Bench] 606 ep 103,917 fr 0.97 h da Vinci Si Ster. UBC WireChasing3D_ merged †

Surg. – Skills Benchmark (Wire Chasing) [Bench] 523 ep 41,102 fr 0.38 h da Vinci Si Ster. UBC WireChasing_merged † Surg. – Skills Benchmark (Wire Chasing) [Bench] 615 ep 60,042 fr 0.55 h da Vinci Si Ster. UC Berkeley debridement_lerobot Surg. – Tissue Manip. (Debride.) [Ex V.] 589 ep 221,950 fr 2.06 h dVRK Ster. UCSD surgical_learning_ dataset Surg. – Tissue Manip. (Dissection) [Bench] 912 ep 288,604 fr 2.67 h dVRK Ster. UCSD surgical_learning_ dataset2 Surg. – Tissue Manip. (Retraction) [Bench] 200 ep 26,313 fr 0.24 h dVRK Ster. UCSD surgical_learning_ retraction_dataset3 Surg. – Tissue Manip. (Retraction) [Bench] 598 ep 183,622 fr 1.70 h dVRK Ster. UCSD surgical_learning_ retraction_failurecase Surg. – Tissue Manip. (Retraction) [Bench] 299 ep 66,839 fr 0.62 h dVRK Ster. UIC UIC_CRCD_LeRobot Surg. – Cholecystectomy (Chole.) [Ex V.] 18 ep 755,891 fr 3.50 h dVRK Endo. USTC/ Tuodao exvivo_liver_sep Surg. – Resect./Dissect. (Liver Dissect.) [Ex V.] 666 ep 121,922 fr 1.41 h Torin Ster. USTC/ Tuodao grasp_on_liver Surg. – Tissue Manip. (Grasping) [Ex V.] 817 ep 63,538 fr 0.74 h Torin Ster. 

Continued on next page 

S7 Table S1 continued 

Group Dataset Domain / Task [Env.] Scale Robot Views 

USTC/ Tuodao invivo_liver_sep Surg. – Resect./Dissect. (Liver Dissect.) [In V.] 199 ep 39,899 fr 0.46 h Torin Ster. USTC/ Tuodao knot_tying Surg. – Suture/Knot (Knot Tying) [Bench] 1,098 ep 182,836 fr 2.12 h Torin Ster. USTC/ Tuodao Needle_handover Surg. – Suture/Knot (Needle HO) [Bench] 260 ep 34,990 fr 0.40 h Torin Ster. USTC/ Tuodao needle_pickup Surg. – Suture/Knot (Needle PU) [Bench] 616 ep 57,172 fr 0.66 h Torin Ster. USTC/ Tuodao tissue_lifting Surg. – Tissue Manip. (Lifting) [Bench] 110 ep 11,673 fr 0.14 h Torin Ster. UT Austin colonoscope-lerobot Endo. – Colonoscopy (Colon. Nav.) [Bench] 1,894 ep 2,095,587 fr 19.40 h Cobra Colonoscope Endo. UTenn benchtop_datasets_ round2_with_part_ seg †

Surg. – Benchtop Tasks (Tool Track.) [Bench] 2 ep 223 fr 0.01 h dVRK Endo., DUTenn surgical_video_ datasets †

Surg. – Surg. Video (Annot.) [Clin.] 73 ep 8,183 fr 0.08 h da Vinci Xi Endo., D, Seg. UTenn surgical_video_ datasets_round2_with_ part_seg †

Surg. – Surg. Video (Annot.) [Clin.] 101 ep 8,760 fr 0.08 h da Vinci Xi Endo., D, Seg. UTenn surgical_video_ datasets_with_tip_ pose †

Surg. – Surg. Video (Annot.) [Clin.] 62 ep 6,690 fr 0.06 h da Vinci Xi Endo., DVirtual Inc. Mira Needle Pickup Surg. – Benchtop Tasks (Needle PU) [Bench] 150 ep 39,960 fr 0.37 h Mira Endo. 

Table S3 : Open-H dataset mixture used in GR00T-H training 

Dataset / Embodiment Group Mixture ratio 

CMR Versius 0.1920 

Cholecystectomy Hysterectomy Inguinal hernia Prostatectomy Drybox peg transfer 

JHU dVRK-Si 0.3498 

ARCADE Cholecystectomy ARCADE Cautery IMERSE porcine cholecystectomy IMERSE CAO cautery IMERSE needle pickup and handover IMERSE tissue lift IMERSE needle pickup 

S8 Dataset / Embodiment Group Mixture ratio IMERSE wound closure IMERSE SutureBot IMERSE NephFat 

JHU IMERSE monocular 0.0372 

SutureBot 

JHU SMARTS 0.0074 

SurgSync stitch coldcut P1 SurgSync stitch coldcut P2 SurgSync stitch coldcut P3 

Stanford dVRK 0.0630 

Needle transfer Tissue retraction Peg transfer 

Obuda dVRK 0.0834 

FRS Dome 1 NeedleThreading 1 PegTransfer 1 Rollercoaster 1 Seaspike 1 NeedleThreading 2 PegTransfer 2 Pork 1 Seaspike 2 Seaspike 3 Skinphantom 1 

Rob Surgical 0.0724 

All merged data 

JHU KUKA IMERSE 0.0085 

star_IL 

USTC / Torin 0.0369 

Ex vivo liver separation Grasp on liver In vivo liver separation Knot tying Needle handover Needle pickup Tissue lifting 

Hamlyn dVRK 0.0393 

Suturing-2 Peg transfer Suturing-1 

S9 Dataset / Embodiment Group Mixture ratio Needle grasp and handover Knot tying Tissue retraction 

UCSD surgical learning 0.0227 

Surgical learning dataset Surgical learning dataset 2 

UC Berkeley dVRK 0.0160 

Debridement 

Turin MITIC 0.0680 

MITIC ex vivo Plastic pad Plastic pad 3DMED Plastic tube 

TUD TUNDRA 0.0034 

Grasping retraction 

Table S4 : Open-H dataset mixture used in C-H-S-S training 

Dataset / Embodiment Group Mixture ratio 

CMR Versius 4.000 

Cholecystectomy Hysterectomy Inguinal hernia Prostatectomy 

JHU IMERSE 2.015 

SRT-H porcine cholecystectomy Electrocautery tumor resection SutureBot Needle pickup and handover Suturing Tissue lift Pickup only 

JHU ARCADE 0.134 

Cholecystectomy Cautery 

Stanford dVRK 0.638 

Needle transfer Tissue retraction Peg transfer 

Hamlyn dVRK 0.396 

S10 Dataset / Embodiment Group Mixture ratio Suturing-2 Peg transfer Suturing-1 Needle grasp and handover Knot tying Tissue retraction 

Turin MITIC 0.283 

Ex vivo 

UCSD dVRK 0.229 

Surgical learning dataset Surgical learning dataset 2 

UC Berkeley dVRK 0.162 

Debridement 

USTC Torin 0.135 

Knot tying Needle handover Needle pickup 

Moon Surgical 0.009 

Moon 

S11 SutureBot Generalization Ex Vivo Suturing MIRA CMR Figure S1 : Experimental setups for GR00T-H policy evaluation. SutureBot: The primary evaluation environment, utilizing a da Vinci Research Kit Si (dVRK-Si), silicone phantom pad, and suture needle. Generalization: An out-of-distribution testbed featuring wound geometries absent from the training data and external lighting sources to replace standard endoscope illumination. MIRA and CMR: Robotic platforms used to validate multi-embodiment policy performance. Ex vivo suturing: Performed with skin-on pork belly to assess performance on real tissue. S12 Movie S1: Successful end-to-end suturing rollout by GR00T-H on the SutureBot bench-mark. GR00T-H controls the dVRK-Si to pick up and hand over the needle, perform needle throw and extraction, and complete the task with a knot tie. S13 Movie S2: Successful sub-task rollouts by GR00T-H for ex vivo suturing. The policy is conditioned on current observations and sub-task prompts, with the prompts shown in the top left of the video. S14 Movie S3: Qualitative results from Cosmos-H-Surgical-Simulator across 30 Open-H datasets, 9 institutions, and 9 embodiments. Each panel shows ground-truth observations (left) alongside model-predicted frames (right), conditioned on recorded kinematic action trajectories. S15 Table S2 : GR00T-H training parameters. Parameter Value Initialization nvidia/GR00T-N1.6-3B 

Frozen backbone false Action horizon 50 Action normalization Temporal z-score Image size 224 x 392 

Random crop 95% Random rotation 5 deg Coarse pixel dropout 0.5 Color jitter Brightness 0.12, contrast 0.15, saturation 0.15, hue 0.02 Multi-view dropout 0.25 State dropout 100% Optimizer AdamW Learning rate 3e-5 

Weight decay 1e-5 

LR schedule Cosine decay Warmup 5% Gradient clipping 1.0 Global batch size 1024 Training steps 65,000 Training compute 32 A100 80GB x 1.5 days S16